>>> FIRST, IT WAS MEXICO WILL
>>> FIRST, IT WAS MEXICO WILL FUND A WALL THAT WILL GET BUILT.
FUND A WALL THAT WILL GET BUILT. THEN IT WAS FINISH THE WALL EVEN
THEN IT WAS FINISH THE WALL EVEN IF AMERICANS PAY FOR IT.
IF AMERICANS PAY FOR IT. TONIGHT, IT IS UNCLEAR IF ANY OF
TONIGHT, IT IS UNCLEAR IF ANY OF DONALD TRUMP’S BORDER WALL WILL
DONALD TRUMP’S BORDER WALL WILL BE CONSTRUCTED.
BE CONSTRUCTED. THE PROPOSAL IS IN JEOPARDY
THE PROPOSAL IS IN JEOPARDY BECAUSE FOUR SENATORS IN HIS OWN
BECAUSE FOUR SENATORS IN HIS OWN PARTY ARE BREAKING RANKS SAYING
PARTY ARE BREAKING RANKS SAYING THEY’LL VOTE AGAINST THE
THEY’LL VOTE AGAINST THE ATTEMPTED NATIONAL EMERGENCY,
ATTEMPTED NATIONAL EMERGENCY, AND THERE COULD BE MORE, THE DAM
AND THERE COULD BE MORE, THE DAM COULD BREAK.
COULD BREAK. GOP DEFECTIONS, SENATOR RAND
GOP DEFECTIONS, SENATOR RAND PAUL SAYS AT LEAST TEN
PAUL SAYS AT LEAST TEN COLLEAGUES SAY THEY WANT TO VOTE
COLLEAGUES SAY THEY WANT TO VOTE AGAINST TRUMP.
AGAINST TRUMP. THE PRESIDENT HAS A MESSAGE FOR
THE PRESIDENT HAS A MESSAGE FOR THOSE GOING AGAINST HIM IN HIS
THOSE GOING AGAINST HIM IN HIS PARTY, SHOWING WHAT CAN ONLY BE
PARTY, SHOWING WHAT CAN ONLY BE DESCRIBED AS A VEILED THREAT IN
DESCRIBED AS A VEILED THREAT IN THAT INTERVIEW WITH SEAN
THAT INTERVIEW WITH SEAN HANNITY.
HANNITY. >> I THINK REALLY IT IS A
>> I THINK REALLY IT IS A DANGEROUS THING FOR PEOPLE TO
DANGEROUS THING FOR PEOPLE TO VOTE AGAINST BORDER SECURITY FOR
VOTE AGAINST BORDER SECURITY FOR ANYBODY, INCLUDING REPUBLICANS.
ANYBODY, INCLUDING REPUBLICANS. I THINK THAT REPUBLICANS THAT
I THINK THAT REPUBLICANS THAT VOTE AGAINST BORDER SECURITY AND
VOTE AGAINST BORDER SECURITY AND THE WALL, I THINK, YOU KNOW, I
THE WALL, I THINK, YOU KNOW, I HAVE BEEN OKAY AT PREDICTING
HAVE BEEN OKAY AT PREDICTING THINGS, I THINK THEY PUT
THINGS, I THINK THEY PUT THEMSELVES IN GREAT JEOPARDY.
THEMSELVES IN GREAT JEOPARDY. >> FORMER SPEECH WRITER FOR
>> FORMER SPEECH WRITER FOR GEORGE W. BUSH, PENNED A RECENT
GEORGE W. BUSH, PENNED A RECENT ARTICLE THAT CRITICIZES
ARTICLE THAT CRITICIZES REPUBLICANS FOR SINKING FURTHER
REPUBLICANS FOR SINKING FURTHER INTO TRUMP’S CESSPOOL.
INTO TRUMP’S CESSPOOL. AND FRANCESCA CHAMBERS.
AND FRANCESCA CHAMBERS. GOOD EVENING TO YOU BOTH.
GOOD EVENING TO YOU BOTH. PETER, WHEN YOU SEE WHAT
PETER, WHEN YOU SEE WHAT REPUBLICANS PUT UP WITH AND
REPUBLICANS PUT UP WITH AND WHAT’S HAPPENING HERE, WHAT’S
WHAT’S HAPPENING HERE, WHAT’S YOUR ANALYSIS OF WHAT YOU CALL
YOUR ANALYSIS OF WHAT YOU CALL THE CESSPOOL AND WHETHER THIS IS
THE CESSPOOL AND WHETHER THIS IS A REAL OPPOSITION.
A REAL OPPOSITION. >> WELL, I DON’T THINK IT IS
>> WELL, I DON’T THINK IT IS REALLY AN OPPOSITION.
REALLY AN OPPOSITION. THERE ARE ISOLATED CASES, THERE
THERE ARE ISOLATED CASES, THERE WERE 13 REPUBLICANS IN THE HOUSE
WERE 13 REPUBLICANS IN THE HOUSE THAT ARE GOING TO DEFECT,
THAT ARE GOING TO DEFECT, BETWEEN 5 AND 10 IN THE SENATE,
BETWEEN 5 AND 10 IN THE SENATE, THAT’S NOT A HUGE REVOLT.
THAT’S NOT A HUGE REVOLT. EVEN IF THEY GO CROSS WISE WITH
EVEN IF THEY GO CROSS WISE WITH DONALD TRUMP ON THE VOTE,
DONALD TRUMP ON THE VOTE, THEY’RE NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO
THEY’RE NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO SUSTAIN THE VETO, SO TRUMP WILL
SUSTAIN THE VETO, SO TRUMP WILL GET WHAT HE WANTS.
GET WHAT HE WANTS. IF THIS WERE A REAL REVOLT,
IF THIS WERE A REAL REVOLT, MITCH McCONNELL WOULD BE LEADING
MITCH McCONNELL WOULD BE LEADING IT.
IT. WE KNOW McCONNELL DOESN’T AGREE
WE KNOW McCONNELL DOESN’T AGREE WITH HIM.
WITH HIM. >> JUST ON THAT POINT, YOU’RE
>> JUST ON THAT POINT, YOU’RE SAYING THAT WHILE THERE IS A
SAYING THAT WHILE THERE IS A STEP HERE, YOU’RE SAYING
STEP HERE, YOU’RE SAYING BASICALLY MITCH McCONNELL IS
BASICALLY MITCH McCONNELL IS BEING HYPOCRITICAL?
BEING HYPOCRITICAL? >> YEAH, HE IS.
>> YEAH, HE IS. HE KNOWS THIS IS WRONG.
HE KNOWS THIS IS WRONG. HE KNOWS IF BARACK OBAMA HAD
HE KNOWS IF BARACK OBAMA HAD DONE THIS, HE WOULD BE IN HIGH
DONE THIS, HE WOULD BE IN HIGH DUNGEON AND SAID HE DOESN’T
DUNGEON AND SAID HE DOESN’T AGREE WITH WHAT TRUMP IS DOING
AGREE WITH WHAT TRUMP IS DOING BUT HE IS GOING TO GO ALONG WITH
BUT HE IS GOING TO GO ALONG WITH IT.
IT. THE REPUBLICAN PARTY SPENT
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY SPENT BETTER PART OF TWO YEARS WHEN IT
BETTER PART OF TWO YEARS WHEN IT COMES TO DONALD TRUMP AND FOR
COMES TO DONALD TRUMP AND FOR THE MOST PART COWARDLY.
THE MOST PART COWARDLY. WE HAVE SPASMS OF INDEPENDENCE,
WE HAVE SPASMS OF INDEPENDENCE, SPASMS OF COURAGE, BUT THEY’RE
SPASMS OF COURAGE, BUT THEY’RE RARE AND THE ACID TEST WILL BE
RARE AND THE ACID TEST WILL BE WITH THE INVESTIGATIONS OF
WITH THE INVESTIGATIONS OF DONALD TRUMP.
DONALD TRUMP. I CAN VIRTUALLY GUARANTEE YOU
I CAN VIRTUALLY GUARANTEE YOU THE REPUBLICAN PARTY IS GOING TO
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY IS GOING TO BE MORE OR LESS IN LOCK STEP
BE MORE OR LESS IN LOCK STEP WITH THEM.
WITH THEM. THIS IS NOT FORESHADOWING DEEPER
THIS IS NOT FORESHADOWING DEEPER FRACTURING.
FRACTURING. >> YOU WISH IT WERE, YOU
>> YOU WISH IT WERE, YOU COMPLAINED ABOUT AND BEEN
COMPLAINED ABOUT AND BEEN CONCERNED ABOUT THE CESSPOOL.
CONCERNED ABOUT THE CESSPOOL. I WASN’T EXPECTING A BUSH
I WASN’T EXPECTING A BUSH OFFICIAL TO MENTION AN ACID TEST
OFFICIAL TO MENTION AN ACID TEST AS A WAY TO UNDERSTAND THIS.
AS A WAY TO UNDERSTAND THIS. VERY TIMOTHY LEERY OF YOU.
VERY TIMOTHY LEERY OF YOU. >> WELL, YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT YOU
>> WELL, YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT YOU GET ON CABLE THESE DAYS.
GET ON CABLE THESE DAYS. >> FAIR.
>> FAIR. FRANCESCA, YOU’RE AT THE WHITE
FRANCESCA, YOU’RE AT THE WHITE HOUSE.
HOUSE. YOU HEAR PETER SAYING WHAT HE
YOU HEAR PETER SAYING WHAT HE SEES AS A REPUBLICAN AND THE
SEES AS A REPUBLICAN AND THE PROBLEM HERE.
PROBLEM HERE. LET ME PLAY A LITTLE OF MITCH
LET ME PLAY A LITTLE OF MITCH McCONNELL SPEAKING ABOUT THE MAN
McCONNELL SPEAKING ABOUT THE MAN THAT OCCUPIES THE BUILDING
THAT OCCUPIES THE BUILDING YOU’RE IN.
YOU’RE IN. TAKE A LISTEN.
TAKE A LISTEN. >> I WAS ONE OF THOSE HOPING THE
>> I WAS ONE OF THOSE HOPING THE PRESIDENT WOULD NOT TAKE THE
PRESIDENT WOULD NOT TAKE THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY ROUTE.
NATIONAL EMERGENCY ROUTE. WHAT IS CLEAR IN THE SENATE IS
WHAT IS CLEAR IN THE SENATE IS THERE WILL BE ENOUGH VOTES TO
THERE WILL BE ENOUGH VOTES TO PASS THE RESOLUTION OF
PASS THE RESOLUTION OF DISAPPROVAL WHICH WILL THEN BE
DISAPPROVAL WHICH WILL THEN BE VETOED BY THE PRESIDENT.
VETOED BY THE PRESIDENT. >> WHAT’S HE DOING THERE, AND IS
>> WHAT’S HE DOING THERE, AND IS THAT GOOD ENOUGH FOR DONALD
THAT GOOD ENOUGH FOR DONALD TRUMP WHO FAMOUSLY WANTS A
TRUMP WHO FAMOUSLY WANTS A REALLY EXCESSIVE LOYALTY NO
REALLY EXCESSIVE LOYALTY NO MATTER WHAT?
MATTER WHAT? >> SO THE WHITE HOUSE IS
>> SO THE WHITE HOUSE IS RESPONDING QUITE CAUTIOUSLY TO
RESPONDING QUITE CAUTIOUSLY TO THIS, POINTING OUT THERE’S STILL
THIS, POINTING OUT THERE’S STILL ON-GOING LITIGATION.
ON-GOING LITIGATION. YOU HAVE TO REMEMBER WHEN THE
YOU HAVE TO REMEMBER WHEN THE PRESIDENT ANNOUNCED THE NATIONAL
PRESIDENT ANNOUNCED THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY, HE SAID HE DIDN’T
EMERGENCY, HE SAID HE DIDN’T NEED TO DO THIS.
NEED TO DO THIS. THAT BECAME THE BASIS FOR LEGAL
THAT BECAME THE BASIS FOR LEGAL CHALLENGES.
CHALLENGES. SO THE WHITE HOUSE PROCEEDING
SO THE WHITE HOUSE PROCEEDING CAUTIOUSLY, BUT AN OFFICIAL TOLD
CAUTIOUSLY, BUT AN OFFICIAL TOLD ME THIS EVENING IT IS MAKING
ME THIS EVENING IT IS MAKING STAFF AT THE WHITE HOUSE
STAFF AT THE WHITE HOUSE AVAILABLE TO LAWMAKERS THAT ARE
AVAILABLE TO LAWMAKERS THAT ARE EXPRESSING CONCERNS AS WELL AS
EXPRESSING CONCERNS AS WELL AS DIRECTING THEM TO THE DEPARTMENT
DIRECTING THEM TO THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AS IT PREPARES FOR
OF JUSTICE AS IT PREPARES FOR THE VOTE, ARI.
THE VOTE, ARI. >> PETER, LISTEN TO HOW THE
>> PETER, LISTEN TO HOW THE PRESIDENT IS TRYING TO DEFEND
PRESIDENT IS TRYING TO DEFEND THIS AS, YOU KNOW, THE KIND OF
THIS AS, YOU KNOW, THE KIND OF TYPICAL THING THAT HAPPENS
TYPICAL THING THAT HAPPENS REGARDLESS OF WHAT HE DOES.
REGARDLESS OF WHAT HE DOES. >> IF PRESIDENT TRUMP CAN BUILD
>> IF PRESIDENT TRUMP CAN BUILD A WALL WHEN CONGRESS HAS REFUSED
A WALL WHEN CONGRESS HAS REFUSED TO PROVIDE FUNDING, THEN THE
TO PROVIDE FUNDING, THEN THE NEXT PRESIDENT CAN DECLARE A
NEXT PRESIDENT CAN DECLARE A NATIONAL EMERGENCY AND TEAR THE
NATIONAL EMERGENCY AND TEAR THE WALL DOWN.
WALL DOWN. >> A LOT OF PEOPLE TALK ABOUT
>> A LOT OF PEOPLE TALK ABOUT PRECEDENT.
PRECEDENT. PRECEDENT.
PRECEDENT. THAT IF WE DO THIS, THE
THAT IF WE DO THIS, THE DEMOCRATS WILL USE NATIONAL
DEMOCRATS WILL USE NATIONAL EMERGENCY POWERS FOR SOMETHING
EMERGENCY POWERS FOR SOMETHING THAT WE DON’T WANT.
THAT WE DON’T WANT. THEY’RE GOING TO DO THAT ANYWAY,
THEY’RE GOING TO DO THAT ANYWAY, FOLKS.
FOLKS. >> I APOLOGIZE FOR ASKING YOU TO
>> I APOLOGIZE FOR ASKING YOU TO GIVE A SERIOUS RESPONSE TO
GIVE A SERIOUS RESPONSE TO DONALD TRUMP’S BLYTHE CPAC
DONALD TRUMP’S BLYTHE CPAC REBUTTAL TO SENATOR ALEXANDER,
REBUTTAL TO SENATOR ALEXANDER, BUT WE CAN ELEVATE THE
BUT WE CAN ELEVATE THE DISCOURSE.
DISCOURSE. PETER, WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THAT
PETER, WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THAT ARGUMENT?
ARGUMENT? IT SEEMS SO PAT ENVIRONMENTALLY
IT SEEMS SO PAT ENVIRONMENTALLY NIE LIST PARTICULAR AND
NIE LIST PARTICULAR AND CONSERVATIVES TALKED ABOUT THE
CONSERVATIVES TALKED ABOUT THE NEED TO CONSTRAIN FEDERAL POWER,
NEED TO CONSTRAIN FEDERAL POWER, REGARDLESS WHO IS IN OFFICE.
REGARDLESS WHO IS IN OFFICE. >> LOOK, I AGREE WITH YOU.
>> LOOK, I AGREE WITH YOU. IT IS NYLISTIC AND HYPOCRITICAL.
IT IS NYLISTIC AND HYPOCRITICAL. WE HAVE SEEN THIS WHEN BARACK
WE HAVE SEEN THIS WHEN BARACK OBAMA TOOK ACTIONS AS RELATED TO
OBAMA TOOK ACTIONS AS RELATED TO DACA KIDS.
DACA KIDS. REPUBLICANS WERE FURIOUS ABOUT
REPUBLICANS WERE FURIOUS ABOUT IT.
IT. WHETHER IT SETS A PRECEDENT OR
WHETHER IT SETS A PRECEDENT OR NOT, AND I AGREE WITH LAMAR
NOT, AND I AGREE WITH LAMAR ALEXANDER, IT COULD, BUT THAT’S
ALEXANDER, IT COULD, BUT THAT’S NOT THE POINT.
NOT THE POINT. THE POINT IS WHETHER IT IS RIGHT
THE POINT IS WHETHER IT IS RIGHT OR WRONG.
OR WRONG. I AM USING VOCABULARY ALIEN TO
I AM USING VOCABULARY ALIEN TO DONALD TRUMP AND A LOT OF HIS
DONALD TRUMP AND A LOT OF HIS SUPPORTERS, BUT IT IS BLATANTLY
SUPPORTERS, BUT IT IS BLATANTLY UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
UNCONSTITUTIONAL. WHETHER IT IS ILLEGAL OR NOT IS
WHETHER IT IS ILLEGAL OR NOT IS ANOTHER QUESTION.
ANOTHER QUESTION. THERE’S NO DOUBT THIS PARTICULAR
THERE’S NO DOUBT THIS PARTICULAR ACTION WHICH WAS TO TRY AND --
ACTION WHICH WAS TO TRY AND -- AFTER REBUKED BY CONGRESS ON
AFTER REBUKED BY CONGRESS ON THIS ISSUE, ON THE FUNDING
THIS ISSUE, ON THE FUNDING ISSUE, TO THEN INVOKE EMERGENCY
ISSUE, TO THEN INVOKE EMERGENCY POWERS FOR SOMETHING THAT’S NOT
POWERS FOR SOMETHING THAT’S NOT AN EMERGENCY WHICH IS A CLEAR
AN EMERGENCY WHICH IS A CLEAR VIOLATION OF SEPARATION OF
VIOLATION OF SEPARATION OF POWERS IS SIMPLY WRONG, IT IS
POWERS IS SIMPLY WRONG, IT IS UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
UNCONSTITUTIONAL. REMEMBER, THIS IS THE PARTY THAT
REMEMBER, THIS IS THE PARTY THAT HAS PEOPLE THAT PROBABLY HAVE
HAS PEOPLE THAT PROBABLY HAVE REFERRED TO THEMSELVES AS
REFERRED TO THEMSELVES AS CONSTITUTIONAL CONSERVATIVES.
CONSTITUTIONAL CONSERVATIVES. HERE IS AN ISSUE WHICH IS SO
HERE IS AN ISSUE WHICH IS SO PERFECTLY FRAMED TO SAY NO, IT
PERFECTLY FRAMED TO SAY NO, IT IS A STEP TOO FAR, AND YOU GET
IS A STEP TOO FAR, AND YOU GET RAND PAUL AND FOUR, FIVE, SIX
RAND PAUL AND FOUR, FIVE, SIX OTHER REPUBLICANS, BUT THE REST
OTHER REPUBLICANS, BUT THE REST ARE FALLING IN LINE.
ARE FALLING IN LINE. THIS I THINK IS SYMBOLIC OF THE
THIS I THINK IS SYMBOLIC OF THE DEEPER CORRUPTION AND CORROSION,
DEEPER CORRUPTION AND CORROSION, INTELLECTUAL CORROSION AND MORAL
INTELLECTUAL CORROSION AND MORAL CORRUPTION OF THE REPUBLICAN
CORRUPTION OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY.
PARTY. FOR ME IT IS LIFELONG
FOR ME IT IS LIFELONG REPUBLICAN.
REPUBLICAN. A SAD THING TO SAY.
A SAD THING TO SAY. IT IS THE REALITY OF THINGS.
IT IS THE REALITY OF THINGS. >> INTELLECTUAL EROSION AND
>> INTELLECTUAL EROSION AND CORRUPTION.
CORRUPTION. HAPPY TUESDAY.
HAPPY TUESDAY. FRANCESCA, FINAL WORD.
FRANCESCA, FINAL WORD. >> REPUBLICANS SEEM TORN ON
>> REPUBLICANS SEEM TORN ON THIS.
THIS. WHEN I SPOKE TO REPUBLICANS THEY
WHEN I SPOKE TO REPUBLICANS THEY DIDN’T WANTS TO SAY HOW THEY
DIDN’T WANTS TO SAY HOW THEY WERE PLANNING TO VOTE.
WERE PLANNING TO VOTE. SEVERAL MENTIONED THAT THEY
SEVERAL MENTIONED THAT THEY BELIEVED IT IS UNPRECEDENTED
BELIEVED IT IS UNPRECEDENTED EXPANSION OF EXECUTIVE POWER NOT
EXPANSION OF EXECUTIVE POWER NOT JUST FROM THIS PRESIDENT BUT
JUST FROM THIS PRESIDENT BUT PAST PRESIDENTS SUGGESTING
PAST PRESIDENTS SUGGESTING THEY’RE AGAINST IT, AGAIN, NOT
THEY’RE AGAINST IT, AGAIN, NOT WANTING TO GO AGAINST PRESIDENT
WANTING TO GO AGAINST PRESIDENT TRUMP ON THIS.
TRUMP ON THIS. SECRETARY NEILSON WAS AT THE
SECRETARY NEILSON WAS AT THE POLICY LUNCHEON FOR REPUBLICANS
POLICY LUNCHEON FOR REPUBLICANS TRYING TO PERSUADE THEIR VOTE.
TRYING TO PERSUADE THEIR VOTE. VICE PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE WENT
VICE PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE WENT LAST WEEK TO TALK TO THEM.
LAST WEEK TO TALK TO THEM. WE EXPECT MORE SENIOR OFFICIALS
WE EXPECT MORE SENIOR OFFICIALS TO BE WORKING WITH REPUBLICANS
TO BE WORKING WITH REPUBLICANS AS WE MOVE TO THE VOTE.
AS WE MOVE TO THE VOTE. >> WHAT THEY CARE ABOUT ON THE
>> WHAT THEY CARE ABOUT ON THE OPTICS, NOT AS MUCH ON SUBSTANCE